This week, we introduce MDPs.
When you first heard about
MDPs, you might have thought,
how can this be
the problem formulation
used for all of
reinforcement learning?
It's too simple. By now,
maybe you're starting to see that
it can represent many problems.
To recap, MDPs formalize
the problem of an agent
interacting with an environment.
The agent and environment
interact at discrete time steps.
At each time, the agent
observes the current state
of the environment.
Based on this state,
the agent selects an action.
After that, the
environment transitions
to a new state and
emits a reward.
Remember, the
agent's choices have
long-term consequences.
The action it selects influences
future states and rewards.
The goal of reinforced
learning is to
maximize total future reward.
This often means balancing
immediate reward with
the long-term
consequences of actions.
We formalize this goal
with the expected return,
which is the expected discounted
sum of future rewards.
By discounting with
Gamma less than one,
we can guarantee
the return remains finite.
The precise value of Gamma
defines how much we care
about short-term rewards
versus long-term rewards.
We discussed a number of
examples of problems
that can be naturally
formulated as either
episodic or continuing MDPs.
The MDP formalism can be used to
model many real-world problems.
The first step in applying
reinforcement learning
will always be to formulate
the problem as an MDP.
That's all for this week.
See you next time.